Added Python Solution for Family Tree (Bronze) (#1899)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-833.mdx

id: usaco-833
source: USACO Bronze 2018 Open
title: Family Tree
author: Danh Ta Chi Thanh, Ryan Chou
---

## Solution

> [Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_family_bronze_open18.html)

Reviewer: since your solution is different from the alternative solution, put it in a separate languagesection

> By finding the closest common ancestor, and the distance from the ancestor and the two cows, we can uniquely identify their relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By finding the closest common ancestor and the distances from the ancestor to the two cows, we can uniquely identify their relationship.
```

## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^3)$

<LanguageSection>
<PySection>
	
```py
import sys

> sys.stdin = open('family.in', 'r')

Reviewer: can you change the quotes to be consistent (either all single quotes or all double quotes)

Author: sure

id: usaco-833
source: USACO Bronze 2018 Open
title: Family Tree
author: Danh Ta Chi Thanh, Ryan Chou
---

## Solution

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_family_bronze_open18.html)

By finding the closest common ancestor and the distances from the ancestor to the two cows, we can uniquely identify their relationship.
## Implementation
**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^3)$

<LanguageSection>
<PySection>
	
```py
import sys

sys.stdin = open('family.in', 'r')
sys.stdout = open('family.out', 'w')

n, a, b = input().split()
relations = []

for i in range(int(n)):     
	relations.append(input().split())

# gets the mother of the cow (if it exists)
def mother(cow):
	for i in relations:
		if i[1] == cow:
			return i[0]

> 	return ''

Reviewer 2: maybe instead of an empty string return None instead?

Author: sure!

# finds if cow is a direct ancestor of cow2 by repeatedly 
# getting the mother of cow2.
def direct_anc(cow, cow2):
	counter = 0
	while cow2 != '':
		if cow == cow2:
			return counter
		cow2 = mother(cow2)
		counter += 1
	return -1

# distance from a to the common ancestor
da = 0
cow = a

while cow != '':
	# if we found a common ancestor
	if direct_anc(cow, b) != -1:
		break
	cow = mother(cow)
	da += 1

# if a common ancestor does not exist
if cow == '':
	print('NOT RELATED')
	sys.exit()

# since we found a common ancestor, cow.
# we can call direct_anc() to get the distance
# from b to the common ancestor.
db = direct_anc(cow, b)

> # if they're related by a common ancestor, 

Reviewer 2: when doing multiline comments,
```py
"""
can you style them like this
it looks better
"""
```

# but not by a mother or aunt, we can return
# COUSINS.
if da > 1 and db > 1:
	print('COUSINS')
	sys.exit()

# if the distance from each cow to their common 
# ancestor is one, they're siblings,
elif da == 1 and db == 1:
	print('SIBLINGS')
	sys.exit()
else:
	if da > db:
		da, db = db, da
		b, a = a, b

> 	print(a, 'is the ', end="")

Reviewer 2: use single/double quotes consistently

Author: oops, i missed that one. thanks for pointing it out!

	# we subtract two because 1 is in place of mother
	# and 2 is in place of grandmother
	for _ in range(db - 2):
		print("great-", end='')
	if da == 0 and db > 1:
		print('grand-', end='')
	if da == 0:
		print('mother ', end='')
	else:
		print('aunt ', end='')
	print('of', b)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
